Icebreaker

The speech is about yourself.

That reminded me of Socrates. The greek philosopher who lived more than 2000 years ago.

He gave a sentence that is inscribed on the gate of Apollo temple in Greece.
Know Thyself.

Their local legend is Socrates was in a market in deep thoughts and he bumps into someone.
That person gets annoyed and barks at him - "Can't you see where you're going? Who are you?"

Socrates was amused and he says - "Dear friend, I've been pondering over that myself for many years. Please let me know if you find out."

In Indian scriptures where I come from - it is said our gross body is made of five elements.
Earth, Fire, Water, Air and Space.

Above that - there are five senses with which we perceive the world.
Above that - there is mind.
Above that - there is intellect.
And above that - there is soul.

If you can please close your eyes for a few seconds - that would be helpful.
Now your sense of sight is closed. And your sense of hearing is actively working.
The one that is within your body and listening right now is who you are.

What is actually a soul?

Let me tell you a story of a wave.
Once a wave is born in the pacific ocean.
He was a little wave. He makes wave friends. He goes to a Wave school.
He is growing up. He sometimes sees big Waves and he idolizes some of them. 
He wants to be one of them. Sometimes he sees small waves and he dislikes some of them.
One day he sees a shore where waves ahead of him were crashing and dying.
He gets scared. Luckily, there was one wise wave around him.
He tells him that that's what happens to every wave - big or small.
He tells him that when the waves crash and die they just stop existing as waves.
But they continue to remain as water which is what they really are.

Similarly, we are also a tiny drops of God which is an ocean of bliss.

Now there may be a question - which God am I referring to? Because, in India itself there are thousands of them. And there are many religions all over the world.

In America, we call the sun - sun. In Mexico, it is called - Sol.
In India, it is called Surya, Suraj and Aditya.
When Sun rises in America, we don't call it an American Sun. 
Or in Mexico, a mexican sun.
It is a universal entity. If we don't know the language or culture, we wouldn't know that it has many different names.
Considering that, there is only one God.

Now - do we have a soul or are we a soul?

When someone dies, we say he or she is gone. But the body is still there. Then, who left?

Another perspective is - this is a shirt. This is my shirt.
This represents a car. It is my car.
I have a house. It is my house.
Similarly, this is me. It is my body.

But, as you would agree - I am not my shirt. I am not my car. I am not my house.
And I am not my body either.

Coming back to Knowing yourself - I've learnt that I am a soul and not a body.

But in this material world - I have a name - Sanket.
It is a noun in Hindi language which means a sign or a gesture.
I work as a Software Engineer and I love my job.
I grew up in India which I consider as my birth parent.
I have spent more than half of my life in US which I consider as my foster parent.

I love our club and am proud to be a part of it.

Thank you!

