Imagine - while you're sitting in your chair comfortably, a squad of soldiers charge in.
They demand that you take your things and go with them.
If you resist, they warn you that there will be consequences.
They put you in a train in which you would travel for 10 hours and end up in a concentration camp.

Terrifying. Isn't it?

That's what happened to millions of Jews in 1940s.
One of them was Dr Viktor Frankl. He was a psychiatrist in Vienna. 
He labored in four different camps including Auschwitz between 1942 and 1945.

He wrote this book about his observations in the camp. 

I can't possibly cover everything that's good in this book. Will try to cover just a few points.

1. ATTITUDE
	
		One of the main ideas of the book is a man - and by man it means a human being - a man or a woman.
		A man can be stripped away from his wealth, his social status, his family. But, there is one thing which cannot be taken away which is his attitude. Especially, attitude in difficult situations. 
		Frankl says - we always retain the ability to choose our attitude.

		Frankl was liked by some of the guards at the camp because of his cheerful attitude.

2. Hope
		
		He says hope is very important to go through difficult times.
		While working in a camp hospital, Frankl noticed the death rate spiked the week between Christmas and New Year’s in 1944. He attributed the dramatic increase to the number of prisoners who were naively holding out hope for liberation before Christmas. As the end of the year drew closer and it became clear that their situation was unchanged, they lost courage and hope. This in turn impacted their power of resistance and their ability to survive.

		Therefore, he refers multiple times the words of Nietzche: He who has a why to live can bear almost any how.

		Now, you'd think in a place like that, everyone would just give up. But Frankl noticed something. Some people survived, and some didn't. And it wasn't always the strongest or the healthiest. It was the ones who had a reason to live. Had something to hold on to.

3. Suffering
	
		Suffering is an ineradicable part of life, even as fate and death. 
		Without suffering and death, human life cannot be complete. 
		If there is a meaning in life at all, then there must be a meaning in suffering.
		
		If we think about it, through his suffering we got this book.

		Also, just to digress a bit, fate played a very important role in the camp.
		Multiple times, prisoners who chose to go to another camp to escape death ended up dead.
		Therefore, they were very scared to influence their fate.

		To explain inevitability of fate - Frankls refers to a parable called "Death in Tehran"

		A rich persian was walking in his garden.
		One of his servants rushes to him scared and cries that he encountered Death who had threatened him.
		He begs his master for the fastest horse so he can hurry up and flee to Tehran which he could reach that same evening.
		Master agrees and the servant gallops off on the horse.
		On returning to the house, the master himself meets Death and questions "Why did you terrify and threaten my servant?"
		The Death says "I did not threaten him. I only showed surprise in still finding him here when I planned to meet him tonight in Teheran."

4. LOGO THERAPY
	
		According to Viktor Frankl, every person strives to seek meaning in his/her life.
	
		Logos is a greek word that denotes meaning.
		Now, how do we find meaning in life?
		Can we just ask someone? Like a therapist, or a guru, or a priest or a pope?
		Frankls says the meaning changes from man to man, from day to day and from hour to hour.
		If we ask someone, it is asking a chess master - "Tell me master, what's the best move in chess?"
		There is no such thing as a best move or a good move. 
		It depends on a particular situation of a game. The same holds true for human existence.

		He gives two examples:
		A thirty year old woman wanted to die because her eleven year old son had died and another older son was disabled and wheel-chair bound. She was rebelling against her fate.
		Dr Frankl asks her a question in a group therapy - Imagine you are eighty years old in your deathbed. You had no child. Your life was full of financial success and social prestige. What would you tell yourself?

		She thinks for a moment and says - 
		"I married a millionaire. I had an easy life - full of wealth. I lived it up. I flirted with men. I teased them. But now I am eighty. I have no children of my own. Looking back as an old woman - I don't know what all that was for. I must say - my life was a failure."

		Now Dr Fankl asks 



Once in a conference, Viktor was asked what is the meaning of his life?
He took a piece of paper and wrote it down. Then he asked his students to guess.
After a while, one student stood up and said "The meaning of your life is to help others find theirs in their lives."
Viktor says - "That's it. That's exactly what I wrote down."

I love this book because it's a story of survival.
It was written 79 years ago and it still inspires people.