
Good evening everyone.

Thanks to all Moksha's friends who took time to practice and who are going to perform a beautiful dance performance.

Thanks to Hiralben for taking the initiative in organizing dance sequences. Thanks to Kartavyabhai and Krunalbhai for arranging music.

Thank you all for being here to celebrate something truly shocking: our daughter is 16 years old.

It's shocking because I remember the day she was born like it was just a few days ago.

We brought her home and our life was changed completely.

It's a privilege to raise a child.  It offers a rare opportunity to experience unconditional love while shaping values that can echo far beyond your own lifetime.

We've been so fortunate that we were given an opportunity to be a parent of such a wonderful child and now a young adult. 

I feel like just day before your yesterday I was putting her in a stroller and carrying her in my arms, yesterday I was tying her shoe laces and putting her in car seat, and today I have to accept her opinion about my fashion choices.

When she was 3 and 1/2 years old, we dropped her at a montessori. Monal became so emotional at that time when Moksha waved bye and left.
Now we're at the point where she is less than 2 years away from going to college.


We remember she would give us entry passes created on yellow post-its to attend tea parties in her room. She would give them to us in the morning and the party would be in the evening. If we lose it, we can't attend. So we need to keep them safe and produce at the door to gain entry.

She is very kind, very thoughtful and the best quality I love is she is responsible.

Most of the credit for her upbringing goes to her mom - Monal. She put a lot of effort in Moksha's studies. She made sure Moksha gets into GT program and remains there from elementary till highschool.

As you're marching towards adulthood, one tip I would like to share with you is take care of your health. Not only physical health. But, mental health too. I feel the era that we live in - mental health is probably more important than physical health. It's okay to feel sad, confused, gloomy from time to time. Make your mind your friend.
As it's said our mind can be your best friend or our worst enemy. Invest 5 minutes every day and make your mind your best friend.

Also, keep God first. Make a connection with God.

I want to thank and honor my beautiful wife, Monal. She has been an amazing and incredible mom to Moksha. Thanks for being her friend and taking care of her for all these years.
She did all the work in planning, preparing and organizing this event.
She worked tirelessly to put everything together including the menu that we're having today.
Thanks for doing it! Could we please give her a round of applause?


Moksha, We wish you a happy birthday. We are very proud of you and we are very fortunate to be your parents.

Thanks again everyone for being here.

Thank you!






