Today I want to talk about a significant cultural event that affected millions of lives all over the world.
I want to address a question that has kept many people awake at night all around the world.
Why Jack died and why he had to die!

We're talking about a guy named Jack Dawson in this cultural milestone called Titanic.

It's been 21 years since Titanic was released. It was a phenomenon at that time. It remained number 1 movie for 15 straight weeks. That's almost 4 months.

Now, there has been a burning question over the years whether Jack could've fit on to that floating door with Rose.
Whether she should've scooted a little bit, made some space for him, so he could've survived too.

Discovery channel has a show called Mythbusters, 
and they experimented on the show whether, at least physics wise, Jack could've survived on the board with Rose or not.
And if not on the board, whether he could've survived in the freezing water with 28 degree temperature until the help arrived. 
And he wouldn't have died with hypothermia where your body get so cold that it stops functioning.

James Cameron who was the writer and director of the film, came on the show and said Jack had to die.
Because, he wrote that in the script. He says on page 147 Jack dies. It's the inner logic of the story.

But, why is that?

Also, by Hollywood standard, a movie should have a happy ending. It should give hope to the audience in the end.
But, whoever saw Titanic knew beforehand that the ship would sink and hundreds of people would die.
So, it already had a tragic ending.
And on top of that, an endearing character dies too. Which is a double whammy.
Double tragic end which is generally not accepted by the audience.

But, Cameron did that anyway. So, why did character of Jack have to die?


Titanic is mostly seen as an epic romance where two people fall in love. 
However, the main story is about finding the will to live.


Story is about finding the will to live.
	
	- Class system.
	- In the beginning of the movie,
		old Rose says that for her it was a slave ship.
		She felt that she was being taken back to America in chains.
		She was depressed.
		At the dining scene, she says, she was feeling like she was standing at a precipice of a hill and no one to pull back, no one cared or no one even noticed.
		And then she goes and tries to commit suicide.

	That's when Jack magically and conveniently appears in her life.

	They briefly lock eyes before this.
	But, they actually meet at this precise moment when Rose needs him the most to stop her from ending her life and to show her a better way to get out of her misery.


In the beginning of the movie, Jack appears as an underdog. And Rose appears as a damsel in distress who needed to be saved.

But, real hero goes on a journey that changes his/her life, who acquires the transformation.

Jack is an equivalent of a manic pixie dream girl role, which would be a manic pixie dream boy.
If you see these girl characters in some rom-coms, they have eccentric qualities, they're very beautiful, and they do not have any inner conflict.
They're just there to teach the male protagonist a lesson of life. 500 Days of Summer, Along Came Polly, Elizabethtown.

Manic pixie dream boy - he's free, he's daring, he's inspiring and he's handsome.
He's also everything that's missing from our protagonist's life which is Rose's life.
His purpose in the movie is to enable Rose's character growth. He gives Rose all the tools to survive.

The last scene - Promise me you will never let go. 
She says - I promise Jack! And ironically she lets him go.

Titanic also explores the theme of value over wealth. 
Values matter and not money or wealth. 
And that's the reason old Rose throws the necklace in the ocean back to Jack.
	
Carl Jung described the animus as the unconscious masculine side of a woman, and the anima as the unconscious feminine side of a man
Rose says teach me to ride a horse like a man, chew a tobacco like a man and spit like a man.
She finds strenght of will, determination to act. These are just historically traditional traits of men.

Titanic is microcosm or a miniature version of a very structured, oppressive, unequal society.
It was set in 1912 where women weren't allowed to vote or women didn't have many liberties.

After getting in touch with her Animus, She becomes extremely daring and bold.
She ditches her fiance, her oppressing mother and her social class.

She even pursues Jack in romancing her. She becomes assertive.
When arrives at the shore, she assumes new name. She takes Jack's last name and becomes Rose Dawson.
She transforms into a new person.

Titanic's story had a purpose for Jack. And when that purpose was fulfilled. He had to go and that's why he had to die!

He exists in order to empower Rose and give her a will to live. 

