??Slide#1
We all know about saving the water.
We learnt that in school.
Even though, there's no drought, there's no shortage, or even we're living near a lake.
We know we should always save water.
Doesn't mean we shouldn't use it. 
Rather, we should use it wisely.

Same applies to figs.
Now, why are we talking about figs?
These full of fiber and nutrients and vitamins-rich little nuggets? 

Well, I would like to cite the source of this speech.
??Slide#2
And that's this book. Currently #7 on Amazon charts. And has been on the chart for last 88 weeks. The subtle art of not giving an F word.

The only reason to show you that is because you know what I mean when I say fig.
And they kinda convey the same meaning too in their idioms.

??Slide#3
"To not give a fig" means to not care anything at all. Not to be concerned about.

People often say the key to confidence and success is to simply "not give a fig". 
For example, last week Pedro fought with his boss but he still got a promotion. He doesn't give a fig. 
Susan ended her Tinder date after talking to him for 20 minutes. She doesn't give a fig.

Now, not giving a fig may seem simple on the surface, but it's a whole new bag of burritos under the hood. I don't know if that makes sense. But, well, I don't give a fig.

The point is we give too many figs in situations where figs do not deserve to be given.
We give a fig when we don't get enough likes on our picture.
We give a fig if our co-worker doesn't ask how awesome our weekend was.
Or we give a fig about what our president tweets everyday at 4 in the morning. 
Maybe we should give a fig about that.

Nonetheless, figs given everywhere. And, that's the problem.

We should stop giving figs to things that are not very important. And save them for things that truly matter. 
Like friends, family, your job, your purpose and new season of Game of Thrones.

Also, when we don't have anything fig-worthy going on in our lives, we give our figs to things that are not fig-worthy.

Few days ago I was at Kroger and there was an elderly lady screaming at the cashier, arguing with her for not accepting her 50-cent coupon. Why does this lady give a fig? It's just 50 cents.
??Slide#4
Well, tell you why. That old lady probably doesn't have anything better to do with her days than to sit at home cutting out coupons all morning. She's old and lonely. Her kids are d-heads and never visit. She can't watch TV without falling asleep. The only person she talks to is the mailman.

So she snips coupons. That's all she's got. Her and her coupons. All day, every day. That's all she can give a fig about because there is nothing to give a fig about. And so when an uptight cashier refuses to accept one of them, you can damn well bet the lady is going to raise hell. 76 years of figs will rain down all at once.

We all wake up with limited number of figs to give everyday.
For things like getting out of bed, getting to work on time, paying rent on time,
taking care of our kids, taking care of our spouse.

But, if you gave a fig to a driver who honked at you, to a co-worker who doesn't get along with you, and every little thing that you give a fig about, you would be out of figs by noon.
And when your boss asks you to stay late that day, you will be freakin' out because you have to give a fig, but don't have a fig to give.

And just like when our money runs out and we become broke or worse - bankrupt.
When our figs run out, we become stressed or worse - depressed.

Just like our money, they need to be spent wisely and not wasted.

Figs do not grow on trees. Well, real figs do. But, not the ones we're talking about.

In the end, I would like to quote a famous author who said,
"In my life, I've given a fig about many people and many things. I've also not given a fig about many people and many things. And those figs I've not given have made all the difference."

Save your figs and I wish you to become fig-rich.