Stan and Feeling good. (Jumping to conclusions and other things).
	Besides being Rap genius, he has stupendous lyrical prowess.
	In a way, he's a modern poet.
	He tells a story in which a person descends into mayhem in his mind.

Eminem whose real name is Marshall Mathers. M&M and he coined the name for himself. Eminem.

	Dido (British singer)
	Why song "Thank you" was used.
		-It also talks about setbacks in life.
		She has not paid her bills, government comes to tear down her house.
		Construction workers put an eviction notice on her door and mover her belongings out.
		All she wants in her life is the person who calls her and makes her day.
		And she's saying "Thank you" to that person. And that person was her then boyfriend.

		Your picture on my wall/It reminds me that it's not so bad...

	• Both songs more or less deal with the same subject of failures and setbacks.
	  But, one talks about being grateful and thankful.
	  Whereas, the other one just descends into the eternal darkness.

The word 'Stan' has been adapted in Oxford Dictionary.
It means an overzeolous or an obsessive fan.
	
Mental Health - mentally unstable, self-mutilating, sexually confused, volatile and abusive to his girlfriend.

Feeling Good (David Burns)
		- Jumping to conclusions when someone doesn't call.
		- We don't know what that person is doing at the moment.
		- Four steps to feel good.
			1. Identiy the upsetting event.
			2. Record your negative feelings.
			3. Triple column technique
			4. Outcome
					

Celebrity Obsessive Syndrome 
	-Celebrity Reality Shows.
	-Junkies.
	-We want to know what they're upto by following them on social media. Twitter, Instagram etc.
		Instagram - Beyonce has 117 million followers. That's more than one third of entire US population.
		

	-I'm obsessed with many of them.
	-When I was a teenager, I had a picture of a bollywood actor in my room.
	

I like all kind of music. People generally come to know that I hear rap or hip-hop music they find it surprising and little amusing.
Because, people who appear like me or who have personality like me generally don't listen to this kind of music.
But, it's not about me. It's about the song Stan.
	
https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/in-excess/201307/celebrity-worship-syndrome

“Evolutionary biologists say it is natural for humans to look up to individuals who receive attention because they have succeeded in a society. In prehistoric times, this would have meant respecting good hunters and elders. But as hunting is not now an essential skill and longevity is more widely achievable, these qualities are no longer revered. Instead, we look to celebrities, whose fame and fortune we want to emulate."

Celebrities did not necessarily mean they were seen as role models. ’We're fascinated even when we don't go out of our way to copy them’.

People who worshipped celebrities for entertainment and social reasons were more optimistic, outgoing, and happy. 	
Those who worshipped celebrities for personal reasons or were more obsessive were more depressed, more anxious, more solitary, more impulsive, more anti-social and more troublesome.

	Add to this the element that celebrities are often being perceived as rebels, breakers of rules or outcasts, and because of that outsider-who-made-it 
image.

	Soap-Opera culture in India which are cheaply made shows and almost has zero artitistic value.
	If a character is killed, they have to resurrect them or bring them back.

	