
Storytelling is a joke telling.
Change is inherent in stories.
 
Drama is anticipation mingled with uncertainty.

https://www.google.com/search?q=why+we+love+stories&oq=why+we+love+stories&aqs=chrome.0.0l6.2431j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8

https://www.wired.com/2011/03/why-do-we-tell-stories/

https://www.google.com/search?q=stories%20psychology&cad=h&safe=active&ssui=on

https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/positively-media/201101/the-psychological-power-storytelling
https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/brain-wise/201411/your-brain-stories

https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2015/08/life-stories-narrative-psychology-redemption-mental-health/400796/

https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/storytelling


1. Opening
	I'm going to talk about a topic that is so deeply ingrained in all of us.
	Stories. Everyone likes stories. 
	We like to listen to stories, read stories, watch stories and tell stories. 
	In fact, stories are our normal mode of information processing. 
	Stories are so normal to us that we don’t even stop to think about why that is.

	Anthropologists - people who study human societies, cultures and their development, 
	tell us that storytelling is central to human existence. It's common to every known culture. 

	Thousands of years ago, when fire was invented and their bellies were full, people gathered around it and told stories.
	Stories were used to pass knowledge from generation to generation.

2. First Paragraph		
	We consume stories continuously and incessantly. 
	We check for news - what happened? why it happened? where did it happen?
	Can you imagine a world without having these news resources?
	
	We also share stories with our co-workers.
	Hey, you know what I did this weekend? Let me tell you what my 3rd grader did.
	Telling an elaborate story.
	
	We also consume stories from our social media apps. Looking at pictures that tell stories.

3. Main Paragraph
	Stories are so powerful that they can change people. Their worldview or their lives forever.
	Let me tell you a story about my experience.
	I never have had a pet. Until few years ago I didn't know anyone who had a pet.
	Several years ago I had a colleague when we were in California. He had moved from Houston to California for a project.
	He had left his two dogs with a friend. He would call his friend and ask him to put his dogs on the phone.
	And he would talk to them. I never understood that.

	Recently, I came across a story in Reader's Digest that changed my perception of pets forever.
	A family - husband, wife and two kids (a son and a daughter) - they adopt a dog.
	They live happily. Kids grow up and go to high-schools. One day the daughter finds out that her Dad had been having an affair for several years.
	The couple splits up. The husband leaves.
	The mother and the kids are devastated.
	They cannot communicate to one another. 
	The teenage boy who played football was lost without his father. 
	The dog would go and lick his hands which didn't have any scrapes or cuts.
	The elder daughter who had gone off to college - one day - steps off a plane and looks like a homeless person.
	She was assaulted at her college.
	The dog would curl up with her for hours to comfort her and ease her pain.
	 
	The dog was a stabilizing force in their family. 
	Each one of them turned to him when they could not turn to one another.
	 
	That made me realize each pet is special and is no less than an actual family member.
	It took 15 minutes to read the story and it changed my view forever.

4. Second main paragraph
	Stories are how we are wired. Stories take place in the imagination. To the human brain, imagined experiences are processed the same as real experiences. Stories create genuine emotions, presence (the sense of being somewhere), and behavioral responses.
	
	That's why when we see a well-made movie on a social issue. It might change our worldview forever even though it might've happened several decades ago.
	When I watched Schindler's list

	Bollywood - Indian Film Industry - 1000 movies a year. 
	Switzerland
	https://www.hindustantimes.com/travel/yash-chopra-s-85th-birth-anniversary-here-are-5-ways-in-which-switzerland-honoured-the-legendary-filmmaker/story-L6DPYWbeqR9KNNXJPAFSxM.html		

	Sales and advertising have always used stories to sell their products.


5. The closing
	There's an old adage that everyone has a book inside of them. 

	Storytelling, then—fictional or nonfictional, realistic or embellished with dragons—is a way of making sense of the world around us.

	Life is incredibly complex, there are lots of things going on in our environment and in our lives at all times, 
	and in order to hold onto our experience, 
	we need to make meaning out of it.
	The way we do that is by structuring our lives into stories.

	Stories are life, life is stories.


	
	
		 

	

When we meet a new person
Tell me your story
Where are you from?
What do you do?

Shakespeare
Life is a stage. Everyone is a character
We look different even though we're from same region, same race.
We talk different. 
We dress different. We all have certain style of dressing sense.

We're inclined to tell our stories. If we don't, you know what happens? We need someone to listen. Maybe we will even pay someone to listen to us.

Songs that tell stories. The song that you liked the most must be telling you a story. Imagine which is your all time favorite song and why you like it?

Cardi B songs - 

Movies and TV shows.

Countries have stories.

https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/brain-babble/201403/why-were-wired-binge-watch-tv
Why we binge-watch 

What are you going to do this weekend?
On Saturday, I'm watching Season 3 of Game of Thrones!
On Sunday, maybe Season 4 of House of Cards!


		British psychologist Edward B. Titchener (1867–1927) might have argued that we become glued to complex, 
		emotionally-charged stories because of our ability to recognize the feelings of others.
 A newly identified phenomenon at the time, Titchener coined the term empathy in 1909. In addition to identifying others' discomfort or elation, "cognitive empathy" examines how humans can also adopt others' psychological perspectives, including those of fictional characters. It's such a universal emotional state that psychological tests (through the use of puppets, pictures, and videos) have even been developed to study empathy in preschool-age children.


Bollywood - Indian Film Industry - 1000 movies a year. 
	Switzerland
	New Zealand

Morale tales. That's how we teach kids.

Sales - Advertising.
	

Stories are how we are wired. Stories take place in the imagination. To the human brain, imagined experiences are processed the same as real experiences. Stories create genuine emotions, presence (the sense of being somewhere), and behavioral responses.

Social movies
Schindler's list
12 years a slave
Boyz N the hood

----------
In the realm of narrative psychology, a person’s life story is not a Wikipedia biography of the facts and events of a life, but rather the way a person integrates those facts and events internally—picks them apart and weaves them back together to make meaning. This narrative becomes a form of identity, in which the things someone chooses to include in the story, and the way she tells it, can both reflect and shape who she is.  A life story doesn’t just say what happened, it says why it was important, what it means for who the person is, for who they’ll become, and for what happens next.

When people tell others about themselves, they kind of have to do it in a narrative way—that’s just how humans communicate. But when people think about their lives to themselves, is it always in a narrative way, with a plot that leads from one point to another? ***There's an old adage that everyone has a book inside of them. 

***Storytelling, then—fictional or nonfictional, realistic or embellished with dragons—is a way of making sense of the world around us.

“Life is incredibly complex, there are lots of things going on in our environment and in our lives at all times, and in order to hold onto our experience, we need to make meaning out of it,” Adler says. “The way we do that is by structuring our lives into stories.”

Stories are life, life is stories.

