• Incredible !ndia •

I visited India last month for 2 weeks for a family event.
I was terrified of boredom becuase I was going alone. 
But, thanks to my wonderful wife who arranged a trip for me within India.

Now, India is known for its rich past and cultural heritage. 
Tourism-wise it has a lot of different things to offer. 
But, it is most famous for its spiritual experience since it was a birthplace of yoga, meditation and buddhism. 

Steve Jobs was there in his youth looking for spiritual guidance. 
Mark Zuckerberg went there in 2008 for similar experience. 
Beatles-a british band were there in 60s and now the ashram is named after them.

I didn't get a chance to have full-blown spiritual experience. But, I got a chance to visit three different places which gave me similar vibes. So, even though I grew up there and had been there many times, this was something different.

First place is called Vaishno Devi. It's a shrine of a goddess in the mountains. There's an 8 miles hike to reach there. Almost a million people visit it every year because of their faith.
Now, I'm not very religious. Or as our President would say, I'm the least religious person you will ever see.
But, due to few incidents during the trip, I could feel that someone was watching over me. So, that was very memorable.

There were lot of monkeys on the way too. If you think, they can hurt you, you're right, they can. But like many things in India there's no logical explanation why they were there.

Also, this is the first meal we had on our trip and it was amazing. It's bread made out of corn, spinach, butter cubes and sweet. It was out of this world.

Second place is in Amritsar, Punjab called Golden Temple. It was built in 15th century. The roof is supposedly made of gold. It's a Sikh temple which is a different faith. Sikh men have beard and wear turbans. Like many Indian people, they have migrated all around the world. Canada has a large population of Sikhs.

The most prominent Sikh person in the world is this guy Ajay Banga. He's CEO of MasterCard since 2010. 

Now as mentioned before, the purpose to visit these places is to have that experience. I visited it twice in two days. Both days, I could feel the aura, the tranquility, the calm in the ambience. This is one of the top sites for spiritual experience in the country. Very popular among foreign travelers.

Also, this has 24 hours kitchen mostly run by volunteers who assist in cooking, cleaning and serving. Food is free for all the visitors.

Also, each of 29 states in India kinda has its own cuisine. But, the food that is known as Indian food across the world comes from this state of Punjab. It's Punjabi cuisine which consists of Naan, Butter masala and other gravy-based dishes. They all come from here. 

I also had Lassi which is yogurt based drink. Traditionally, the state was known for farming and agriculture. Therefore, farmers' diet was heavy with creme and butter specially when they're vegetarians.

I was very excited to go there and eat where it originated. 
Because, believe it or not, I love Indian food.

Third place was the capital of India, city of New Delhi. I have a cousin there who hosted us. We visited India Gate which is a memorial for the soldiers that died in first world war. I didn't know that until I visited it. 
  
Then we visited another temple called Akshardham. This is relatively a new one. Only 14 years old. It has two exhibitions that shows many contributions of Indians thousands of years ago to human civilization. That is in medical, science, maths and many other things.

You might already know this. The concept of zero as a digit in the decimal place was developed in India in 7th century. So, there were numbers 1 to 9. 
But, 10 was invented in India. That gave birth to 11, 12, hundred, thousand, million and so on. 

It may be hard to believe now, since India is a developing country. 
But, it was continuosly invaded by many emperors from 7th to 14th century for its wealth and its fame.
To give you a context...
Columbus discovered America in 1492(14th century) when he wanted to go to India. 
The guy who built Taj Mahal, his grandfather's grandfather, great-great grandpa invaded India in early 15th century and established his rule. His dynasty ruled for more than 300 years.

Then came British. They sneaked in and ruled for almost 200 years.
But, that's water under the bridge now. I guess.
I mean it could've been worse. We could've been ruled by Hitler. Geographically, Germany is closer to India than UK is. And if it was Hitler, I'm pretty sure there would not have been a problem of population of 1.3 billion people.

But, some people are still contributing at world level. 

I enjoyed the chaos, cacophony and surroundings.



