It's been 21 years since Titanic was released.
It was a phenomenon at that time. It remained number 1 movie for 15 straight weeks. That's little more than 4 months.
It has been a favorite movie of a lot of people all over the world.
I was in college when I saw it back in India.

Now, there has been a burning question over the years whether Jack could've fit on to that floating board with Rose.
Whether she should've made some space for him, so he could've survived too.

Discovery channel has a show called Mythbusters,
and they experimented on the show whether, at least physics wise, Jack could've survived on the board with Rose or not.
And if not on the board, whether he could've survived in the freezing water with 28 degree temperature until the help arrives. 
And he wouldn't have died with hypothermia where your body get so cold that it stops functioning.

James Cameron who was the writer and director of the film, came on the show and said Jack had to die.
Because, he wrote that in the script. On page 147, that Jack dies.

But, why is that?

Also, by Hollywood standard, a movie should have a happy ending. It should give hope to the audience in the end.
But, whoever went to see Titanic knew beforehand that the ship would sink and hundreds of people would die.
So, it already had a tragic ending.
And on top of that, an endearing character dies too. Which is a double whammy.
Double tragic end which is generally not accepted by the audience.

But, Cameron did that anyway.
So, why did character of Jack have to die?

He exists in order to empower Rose and give her a will to live.
A story purpose is fulfilled. He's gone.

Manic Pixie Dream Boy. Manic Pixie Dream Girl characters are more prevalent in Hollywood.

Titanic is seen as a big romantic movie. The scene on the front of the ship.

Story is about finding the will to live.
	
	- Class system.
	- In the beginning of the movie,
		old Rose says that for her it was a slave ship.
		She felt that she was being taken back to America in chains.
		She was depressed.
		At the dining scene, she says, she was feeling like she was standing at a precipice of a hill and no one to pull back, no one cared or no one even noticed.
		And then she goes and tries to commit suicide.

	That's when Jack appears in her life.
	

In the beginning of the movie, Jack appears as an underdog which is very common archetype in Hollywood movies.	
And Rose appears as a damsel in distress who needed to be saved.

Real hero goes on a journey that changes his/her life, who acquires the transformation.

Jack is an equivalent of a manic pixie dream girl role, which would be a manic pixie dream boy.
If you see these girl characters in some rom-coms, they have eccentric qualities, they're very girly, and they do not have any inner conflict.
They're just there to teach the male protagonist a lesson of life.

Manic pixie dream boy - he's free, he's daring, he's inspiring and he's devilishly handsome.
He's also everything that's missing from our protagonist's life which is Rose's life.
His purpose in the movie is to enable Rose's character growth.
He gives Rose all the tools to survive.




