Hi everyone,

We as a nation recently celebrated 250th birthday of our country.

It's a huge milestone.

Apparently, USA is the first country that got independence from Britain.

Now, every country on the earth has a special place in the world.

That got me thinking - what the world would be like without USA and its immigration policies.

This is the only country where you can find people from possibly every country in the world.

That includes developing countries and highly developed countries - Germany or Japan.

People come here for variety of reasons.

For example, I came here because I got an opportunity to work. I didn't have any plans to come to USA. This is back in year 2000. But I am so glad I did. And now I am a proud citizen.

But, in last 80-90 years, there have been many war-torn or troubled countries. 
Countries that were affected by Holocaust in Europe, 
Vietnam, Afghanistan and most recently Ukraine.

People there did not only lose their homes.
But their lives, their jobs, some of them lost their family.

America welcomed them with open arms.

Some didn't even speak English when they arrived.

America gave them a second chance at life. To begin again.

I feel that's a huge contribution towards humanity.

I think we need to applaud that.

I also feel America has contributed a lot in globalizing the world.

One way out of many is through fast food brands.

McDonald's operates in 115 countries. That's more than half of the countries in the world.
Did you know, in middle east, they sell a pita bread sandwich called McArabia?

You have to applaud the audacity of these fast food companies.

Did you know Taco Bell tried to operate in Mexico?
People of Mexico were shocked to see what they were offering.
It was like taking cheese to France and telling them - see what I brought.
Or taking Sushi to Japan or Noodles to China.

When I was new in the country, I used to hear from different people that all the immigrants mainly from Europe brought their culture here. There is no defined culture here per se.
Now the way I see it is that America affecting the entire world.
In other words, the entire world is getting cultured by American living.




