Know Thyself - Redux - March 2026

On the wall of the temple of Apollo in Delphi, just two words were carved—words that have challenged humanity for centuries: “Know thyself.”

Socrates. The greek philosopher who lived more than 2000 years ago. He wholeheartedly advocated it.

The local legend is Socrates was in a market in deep thoughts and he bumped into someone.
That person gets annoyed and barks at him - "Can't you see where you're going? Who are you?"

Socrates was amused and he says - "Dear friend, I've been pondering over that myself for many years. Please let me know if you find out."

He was condemned to death for not following state orders and was blamed to corrupt the youth by his teaching.
He famously said before he died that the unexamined life is not worth living.

That got me thinking who am I?

Am I a dude from India? Am I a software engineer? Or am I just a middle aged man?
I looked at my picture when I was in school. I looked completely different. Almost unrecognizable.
That made me realize I would be pretty unrecognizable 20 years from now too. Then who exactly am I?

In scriptures of India - it is said our gross body is made of five elements.
Earth, Fire, Water, Air and Space.

Our flesh and bones will eventually be merged into the earth.
Our bodies are warm which symbolizes fire. Our body digests food using this fire.
We have blood running through our veins which is water.
We breathe air without which we cannot exist.
There is space in hollow parts of our bodies.

The scriptures say the body is made of five elements.
Above that - there are five senses with which we perceive the world.
Above that - there is mind.
Above that - there is intellect.
And above that - there is soul.

If you can please close your eyes for a few seconds - that would be helpful.
Now your sense of sight is closed. And your sense of hearing is actively working.
The one that is within your body and listening right now is who you are.

What is actually a soul?

Let me tell you a story of a wave.
Once a wave is born in the pacific ocean.
He was a little wave. He makes wave friends. He goes to a Wave school.
He is growing up. He sometimes sees big Waves and he idolizes some of them. 
He wants to be one of them. Sometimes he sees small waves and he dislikes some of them.
One day he sees a shore where waves ahead of him were crashing and dying.
He gets scared. Luckily, there was one wise wave around him.
He tells him that that's what happens to every wave - big or small.
He tells him that when the waves crash and die they just stop existing as waves.
But they continue to remain as water which is what they really are.

Similarly, we are also a tiny drops of God which is an ocean of bliss.

Now there may be a question - which God am I referring to? Because, in India itself there are numerous gods. And there are many religions all over the world.

In America, we call the sun - sun. In Mexico, it is called - Sol.
In India, it is called Surya.
When Sun rises in America, we don't call it an American Sun. 
Or in Mexico, a mexican sun.
It is a universal entity. If we don't know the language or culture, we wouldn't know that it has many different names.
Considering that, there is only one God.

Now - do we have a soul or are we a soul?

When someone dies, we say he or she is gone. But the body is still there. Then, who left?

Another perspective is - this is a shirt. This is my shirt.
This represents a car. It is my car.
I have a house. It is my house.
Similarly, this is me. It is my body.

But, as you would agree - I am not my shirt. I am not my car. I am not my house.
And I am not my body either.

There are many ways to interpret what Know Thyself means.

It may mean knowing your limits as a human. We can't control tsunamis, hurricanes or earth quakes.
It may mean knowing your values and beliefs how they were formed.
It may also mean knowing your true self beyond job titles, social label or achievements.

What I've learnt is I am a soul and not a body.
Just like a person changes clothes. A soul changes bodies.

I encourage you to explore what it means to "know thyself".