Jokemaster - August 6th 2018

We live in a competitive world. There's so much competition around. 
We live in an environment where everyone tries to one-up everyone.
From our co-workers to our siblings. To even our spouses.

Whenever we have to go to a party, I put on a shirt and sit with my iPad and wait for my wife.
And she doesn't take much time to get ready. Only about an hour which is kinda standard.
Once she appears. I have to evaluate my clothing choice. And most likely, I will have to change to match her standard. Or to surpass it.
But, she tells me I compete with her.

I know this guy. He's an amazing guy. But, he's so much into competition. 
He always wants to compete. It doesn't matter what the subject is. He wants to be an expert in everything.
I would say he's smart. But, if you ask him, he would say he's genius.
And he thinks he's so good that if he does something, it means he exceled everyone else.
And it's terrific if it's healthy.
But, one time, this guy, he went on twitter and announced,
"Hey guys, I did something that no one has ever done in the history of the world. I stuffed four oreos in my mouth."

Another time, he went to Paris to see Eiffel tower.
He tweeted from there.
"Hey guys, I don't know why French keep a water fountain in their bathrooms, but you won't believe what a different use I found for it."

These kind of things, too much competition, it affects you mentally.
And that's why we have Vitality. If you meditate for 10 minutes, it offers you 10 lousy points.

I'm just kidding, 10 points is good. You would think if you meditate, there won't be any competition in your mind.

But, one time I went to this retreat where people meditate. And I overheard these three students talking about their teachers.

One student said, "My teacher is so awesome. He can go 10 days without eating."
The second one said, "My teacher has so much self-control, he can go 20 days without sleep."
The third one said, "My teacher is so wise, he eats when he's hungry and sleeps when he's tired."

And I learnt it's only good if competition is healthy. Otherwise, just be wise, do your thing!