It's already August. Just 2 months away from Halloween.
Do you guys know about Jimmy Kimmel's Halloween segment parents tell their kids on the next day of Halloween that they ate their candy. 
And they record their crying kids. And they share it with others.

Scripture says God is our Father and we're his kids.
And sometimes God likes to joke with his kids too.

A woman named Linda was praying to God. Linda said, "God!?" God responded, "Yes?" And Linda said, "Can I ask a question?" "Go right ahead," God said. "God, what is a million years to you?" God said, "A million years to me is only a second." "Hmmm," Linda wondered. Then she asked, "God, what is a million dollars worth to you?" God said, "A million dollars to me is as a penny." So the woman said, "God, can I have a penny?" 
And God cheerfully said, "Sure! Just a second."

Parents are shepherd, healer and helper to their Kids. And is God. 
But, sometimes, parents play mean prank on their kids. So does God! I mean, REAL MEAN!

When God created earth, he put Adam there.

And one day, Adam was sitting under a tree all alone and mopey.
He was so lonely like a highway patrol in a small Alaska town.
They're so lonely they would pull you over just so they can talk to someone.

God asked Adam, "Hey Adam, why you so mopey? What's wrong with you?"

Adam said "What do you think? I don't have anyone around. Nobody to talk to".

So, God said he was going to make Adam a companion and that it would be a woman. 

Adam said "Okay. What would be a woman like?"

God said, "The woman will make food for you, and when you discover clothing she'll wash it for you. When you have a house, she will clean it."

Adam said "That sounds great."

God said "Wait. There's more. She will always agree with every decision you make. She will never nag you. And when you two disagree, she will always be the first to admit she was wrong and apologize. She will love you like you're a little puppy."

Adam got excited. "That sounds terrific. When can you send her?"

So, God got serious and said "Wait. There's more. A companion like that will cost you."

Adam asked  "What will it cost?"

 "An arm and a leg." said God.

So Adam says, "What?"

He takes a moment and thinks it through. All those things sounded nice. But, what would he do without an arm and a leg?

So he goes back to God and says "God, what can I get for a rib?" 

And you know what happened after that.

The joke is still on.