Good evening all. 

As you can imagine this is a very important event in our lives.
I would like to thank everyone for coming and attending this event. Especially, the guests and family who have flown in from distant places. My brother and his family and my mom have come all the way from India for this event.

I would like to thank all the friends who volunteered to help with this event.

In our short lives, we rarely get few moments where we genuinely, from bottom of our hearts, get to say 'Thank you' to our nearest and dearest. Today, Sakhi has given me this opportunity. I'm extremely proud of her and thankful to her for completing this long and difficult journey successfully.

In most cultures, parents always expect some achievements from their kids. Our Indian culture is well-known for that. We all knew that growing up. I am no exception either. In fact, I went few steps ahead and set my expectations before any of my two kids was born. Or before Sakhi was born when Prarthna and I were in Amdavad in early 2000s.

I had a wish if I had a daughter I would like her to train in Indian classical dance. Because, it is a sincere depiction of the divine. It's an embodiment of imagination and gracefulness.

When we moved here to Dallas in 2004, Sakhi was 3 and 1/2 years old. And I thought this would never happen. We would never find a dance teacher in the US. But, with our good fortune we found Sakhi's first teacher Ms. Mamata in due time and Sakhi embarked on her journey at the tender age of 6.

As you would all agree, teaching a child something as intricate as classical dance is a difficult endeavor. At times, it was not easy to learn and she wanted to quit. But, Prarthna and I continued to persuade her and with the help of her teacher and her tremendous hard work she continued to make progress.

When we moved to our new house in 2010, we got her new teacher Ms. Madhushree. 

Gungroo puja is one of the major milestones in Arangetram journey. And as luck would have it, Sakhi's day of Gungroo puja and birthday of her beloved brother are same.

Our family would like to thank both of the teachers profusely for teaching Sakhi, for guiding her and for nurturing her. She started her journey with wonderful Ms. Mamata and ended with marvelous Ms. Madhushree.

Some of you may be wondering why I keep calling her Sakhi whom you've known as Diya.
Diya is a beautiful name. You might already know it means an earthen lamp.
Somehow my favorite name for her has remained Sakhi which means a friend.
It was given to her by my sister Manisha.
And true to its name Sakhi has always remained a wonderful friend to everyone.

She is more of a friend than a daughter to me and Prarthna. And more of a best friend to Avashya than a big sister.

She will embark on a new and equally long journey next month when she starts college in San Antonio.

We wish you all the best dearest daughter. You've always made us proud. You're making us proud now.
And we will sure miss having you around.

Thank you!!