I love fast food. I mentioned that in my Ice-Breaker.
I like President Donald Trump. 
I like Trump because he loves fast food.
What I like most about Trump is he only likes the classic burger chains. McDonalds, Burger King, Wendy's.
It's admirable that for a billionaire he doesn't seem to like higher-end burger chains like Fuddruckers, Five Guys or Shake Shack.

In January, he invited College Football champion Clemson Tigers to White House and served them burgers from these restaurants.
Football champions went there dressed in their suits to have cold as stone fast-food burgers and fries. 
Apparently they all knew what they were going to get for dinner and that's why they all went drunk.

Trump loves burgers so much he has a nickname for them. Out of love he calls them - Hamberders. He tweeted that.

He also tweeted.
In order to fund his border wall, he will open a McDonald’s, a Burger King and Wendy's in the White House.
John Kelly, his then chief of staff, read it and he came to him furious. He said you can't do that.
Trump - Why not? I'm the president.
Kelly - You can't have all these burger joints here and no Taco Bell.
That was the first time Trump agreed with him on something.

On a side note, The way news outlets cover each and every one of his tweets is little out of hand.
If I come to work and people always talk bad about me. Guess what I would call them. 
I would call them "Fake people". "Fake people". 

Yet, on the contrary, we cannot ignore how much he likes to brag about not knowing history.

He visited Mount Vernon few months ago which was the plantation of George Washington, the first President of the United States. 
If he was smart, he would’ve put his name on it. So, people would've remembered him.

 
On Martin Luther King's birthday - also known as MLK Day - he tweeted.
Congratulations to everyone on a great holiday of MLK! 
He wrote I've always truly and deeply loved Mcdonald’s, Little Ceasars and KFC!

Not only that, few months ago, Trump wanted to declare emergency to secure funds to build a wall.
Considering his love of fast food, a real Trump emergency would be if McDonald's ran out of BigMacs.

Now we don't know when we're going to build a wall.
We don't know whether Mexico is going to pay for it.
However, we know one thing. And we know it for sure. 
Whenever we build that wall, McDonald's is going to cater it.