1. Opening
I'm going to talk about a topic that is so deeply ingrained in all of us.
Stories. Everyone likes stories. 
We like to listen to stories, read stories, watch stories and tell stories. 
In fact, stories are our normal mode of information processing. 
Stories are so normal to us that we don’t even stop to think about why that is.

Anthropologists - people who study human societies, cultures and their development, 
tell us that storytelling is central to human existence. It's common to every known culture. 

Thousands of years ago, when fire was invented and their bellies were full, people gathered around it and told stories.
Stories were used to pass knowledge from generation to generation.

2. First Paragraph		
We consume stories continuously and incessantly.
In the form of news, social media, tv shows, movies and our own stories.
At night, when we sleep, we dream that have their own stories.

3. Main Paragraph
Stories are so powerful that they can change people. Their worldview or their lives forever.
Let me tell you a story about my experience that changed my worldview and I'm not talking about last season of Game of Thrones.

I never have had a pet. 
Several years ago when I was in California, I had a colleague who had moved there temporarily leaving his two small dogs in Texas with a friend. He would call his friend and talk to the dogs on the phone. I never understood that.

Recently, I came across a story in Reader's Digest that changed my perception of pets forever.
A family - husband, wife and two kids (son and daughter) - they adopt a dog.
They live happily. Kids grow up and go to high-schools. 
One day the daughter finds out that her Dad had been having an affair for several years.
The couple splits up. The husband leaves. The mother and the kids are devastated.
They cannot communicate to one another. 
The teenage boy who played football was lost without his father. 
He would cry sometimes for no reason. The dog would go and lick his hands which didn't have any scrapes or cuts.
The dog knew the cuts were much deeper.
The elder daughter who had gone off to college - one day - steps off a plane and looks like a homeless person.
She was assaulted at her college in the worst possible way you can imagine.
The dog would curl up with her for hours to comfort her and ease her pain.

Eventually, kids go back to college, the mother grows old and becomes alone.
The dog would provider her comfort that only a family member can provide. 

The dog was a stabilizing force in their family. 
Each one of them turned to him when they could not turn to one another.
 
That made me realize each pet is special and is no less than an actual family member.
It took 15 minutes to read the story and it changed my view forever.

That was the second time my view for something was instantly changed.
First time was when I watched a caveman commerical and switched to Gieco. 

4. Second main paragraph
Stories are how we are wired. Stories take place in the imagination. To the human brain, imagined experiences are processed the same as real experiences. Stories create genuine emotions and gives the sense of being present there.

That's why when we see a well-made movie on a social issue. It might change our worldview forever even though it might've happened several decades ago.
I had heard about Holocaust. But, when I watched Schindler's list, it gave me goosebumps and a differnt meaning to the story that I heard before.

Bollywood - Indian Film Industry - 1000 movies a year. Switzerland

5. The closing
There's an old adage that everyone has a book inside of them. 
And that's why. that's why it's said - every child is a story yet to be told.

Stories, fictional or nonfictional, realistic or embellished with dragons—is a way of making sense of the world around us.

Life is incredibly complex, there are lots of things going on in our environment and in our lives at all times, 
and in order to hold onto our experience, we need to make meaning out of it.
The way we do that is by structuring our lives into stories.

Stories are life, life is stories.

In the end, I wish, may your next chapters in life are enchanting, enthralling and exciting.